# teach_yourself_demoscene_in_14_days
book idea from http://www.pouet.net/topic.php?which=10882&amp;page=1


## Day 1 - What's a demoscene

The [demoscene](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Demoscene) is an underground computer art culture.

We call demosceners the folks with too much free time that like to use their computers and make digital art to be released on this so called demoscene.

Demosceners often use nicknames to identify themselves and hang around in so called demogroups. Some demosceners are active members in multiple demogroups, with or without using the same nickname.

Demoscene has no comercial purpose. The releases are meant to show the limits of the machines and the technical skill of their makers. There are no rules to what kind of release you can make. Some are made as technical benchmarks, others as conceptual art, others just for fun. It is entirely up to you to explore what you like doing and share it with other demosceners.

Demoscene releases come in many different shapes and forms:
* tracks, audio pieces in rendered or executable formats
* pixel graphics, drawn images with fixed resolutions and/or palletes with restricted number of colors
* demo, an audiovisual realtime executable for a certain machine
* limited size intros, a single executable file with all assets generated by the executable under a specific filesize limitation (popular sizes: 256bytes, 512bytes, 1kb, 4kb, 8kb, 64kb)
* animation, rendered graphics videos

Releases typically occur at [demoparties](http://www.demoparty.net/). Demoparties come in many flavors but they are usually 2 or 3 day events that bring together demosceners and ask them to participate in a series of competitions. The entries are shown on the big screen, people vote what they liked best, and some guys get to take symbolic prizes home.

Your mission, should you should to accept it, is to in 14 days, make your first demoscene entry, meet fellow demosceners, participate in the compos at a demoparty and eventually "bring a big shock to japanese brain".

On the first day of the rest of your life you should google about the demoscene and watch some demos!

## Day 2 - Find your vocation

On the second day of the rest of your life you should figure out what you want to do on the demoscene.

A demo is usually a group effort. Sceners are typically divided into 3 types of roles:

1. Graphician - artwork, 3d modelling, animation
2. Musician - composing and producing the audio soundtrack
3. Coder - programming effects and tools that will enable you to get your demo done before the deadline!

You can always just do everything yourself, but it takes some hefty ammount of effort to be proficient in each of the areas, so it's common that people specialize in one of them while retaining some additional capacity on the others.

So what do you want to do when you grow up? Draw imaginary worlds? Annoy your dog with high pitch sounds? Spend your whole night debugging spaghetti code?

Some people know immediately what they want to be in charge of, others like to experiment a little of each as it fits their mood.

There is an additional role on the demoscene, which is of the organizer, although not directly involved in the production of demos, they are often critical to a successful sprint and keeping the spirit alive. Their tasks can range from finding complementary group members to join the project, managing people and deadlines, organizing events, promoting releases, etc.

You should never be afraid to try out or experiment in an area you don't dominate, even if you don't stick with it you'll learn invaluable information on how it works that will undoubtedly help you in other areas of the future. Embrace your curiosity, don't be afraid to fail. People learn with mistakes and everybody has to start somewhere. So follow your heart, ignore any prejudices and explore what you want to explore.

It won't be easy to master a role. They are all life-long commitments that take years of practice and exploration to achieve something great, but we all have to start somewhere, so let's get started!

By the end of day 2 you should have an idea of what you want to explore more seriously. If you have doubts what each area actually entails, search for some beginners tutorials on the different areas to help you decide. We will cover the basics of each role during the next days but the more prior information you have the better prepared you will be to tackle the challenges ahead!

## Day 3 - Basics of graphics

## Day 4 - Basics of audio

## Day 5 - Basics of code

## Day 6 - Tools and resources

## Day 7 - Experiment

## Day 8 - Achievable Goals

There are many ways of making a demo. The only right way is your own way. The way that is interesting and fun.

Some people try to replicate some effects after seeing something interesting in another demo, movie, advert or nature. Building up a bunch of different effects and then trying to find a soundtrack to glue them all together into something nice.

Others prefer to nail down a concept and only then get to work on it's different components. Some sceners only feel the drive to create something when someone requests them to do something or throws them a challenge.

Some coders only do engines, frameworks and tools. Some graphicians only fool around with engines until something seems interesting. 

All these approaches are valid. Demoscene is a hobby, so don't treat it as work, do whatever you like whenever you feel like doing it.

Some protips to keep in mind:

1. There is a finite number of productive hours per day, there is a finite number of days until the deadline, aim for achievable goals, build on top of them after you've reached them.
2. If you have no ideas, try to do random things, eventually you will come up with something more concrete. Don't let a lack of concept stop you.
3. Do stuff on the project for atleast 5 minutes each day, even if it's just tweaking some colors, it helps to keep the project in the back of your mind.
3. Communicate your progress with your team mates, they might give you feedback, and it'll motivate them to go do something for the project aswell.

If you keep these things in mind by the end of day 8 you should have an achievable goal in mind or atleast some ideas for effects to try out.

## Day 9 - Proof of Concept

## Day 10 - Deadlines are important

## Day 11 - Get Help

## Day 12 - Crunch Time

## Day 13 - The Real Party is Outside

## Day 14 - Pouet != Scene && Scene != Pouet
